1. Difference between JUnit 4 and JUnit 5
JUnit is a testing framework for Java.

JUnit 4	JUnit 5
Monolithic architecture	Modular architecture
Uses older annotations (@Before, @After)	Uses new annotations (@BeforeEach, @AfterEach)
Limited features	More powerful and flexible
No support for Java 8 features	Supports Java 8+ (lambdas, streams)
Less extensible	Highly extensible with extensions

Conclusion: JUnit 5 is more advanced, flexible, and modern compared to JUnit 4


2. JUnit Annotations + Assert Methods
Annotations:
@Test – defines test method 
@BeforeEach – runs before each test 
@AfterEach – runs after each test 
@BeforeAll – runs once before all tests 
@AfterAll – runs once after all tests 
@Disabled – skips test 
Assert Methods:
assertEquals(expected, actual) 
assertTrue(condition) 
assertFalse(condition) 
assertNull(object) 
assertNotNull(object) 
assertThrows() 
Conclusion: Annotations control execution, assertions validate results.

3. JaCoCo and Report Generation
JaCoCo (Java Code Coverage) is a tool used to measure how much of the source code is tested by test cases.
It helps developers identify:
Untested code 
Weak test coverage 
Missing test cases 
Steps to generate report:
1.Add JaCoCo plugin in Maven/Gradle 
2.Run test cases using mvn test 
3.Generate coverage report using mvn jacoco:report 
4.Open HTML report to view coverage 
The report shows:
Line coverage 
Branch coverage 
Method coverage 
Conclusion: JaCoCo improves code quality by ensuring maximum test coverage.

4. Docker Architecture and Components
Docker is a containerization platform with a client-server architecture.
Components:
Docker Client: Interface where users run commands 
Docker Daemon: Background service that manages containers 
Docker Images: Templates used to create containers 
Docker Containers: Running instances of images 
Docker Registry (Docker Hub): Stores and distributes images 
Working:
Client sends commands → Daemon processes → Containers are created from images.
Conclusion: Docker architecture enables fast and efficient application deployment.


5. Docker Image, Dockerfile, Docker Hub
Docker uses three key elements:
Docker Image: A read-only template containing application code and dependencies. It is used to create containers. 
Dockerfile: A text file containing instructions (like install software, copy files) to build an image. 
Docker Hub: A cloud-based repository to store, share, and download Docker images. 
Working:
Dockerfile → builds Image → Image runs as Container → stored in Docker Hub
Conclusion: These components simplify application packaging and deployment.

6.Virtuilaztion and containeriztaion



Virtualization and containerization are techniques to run multiple applications.
Virtualization uses a hypervisor to create virtual machines, each with its own OS. 
Containerization uses the host OS kernel to run lightweight containers. 
Differences:
Virtual machines are heavy and slow 
Containers are lightweight and fast 
VMs require full OS, containers share OS 
Containers provide better performance 
Conclusion: Containerization is more efficient and widely used in DevOps.



7. Lifecycle of Docker Container
Docker containers go through different stages:
1.Create – container is created from image 
2.Start – container starts execution 
3.Run – application runs inside container 
4.Pause – container is temporarily stopped 
5.Stop – container execution stops 
6.Remove – container is deleted 
These stages help manage application lifecycle efficiently.
Conclusion: Understanding lifecycle helps in better container management.

8. AWS Services for Deployment
Amazon Web Services (AWS) provides various services for application deployment:
EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) – provides virtual servers 
S3 (Simple Storage Service) – used for storing files 
RDS (Relational Database Service) – managed database service 
Lambda – serverless computing (runs code without servers) 
Elastic Beanstalk – simplifies application deployment 
These services provide scalability, flexibility, and reliability.
Conclusion: AWS enables efficient and scalable cloud-based deployment.

9. Azure Features for Deployment
Microsoft Azure is a cloud platform that provides services for application deployment.
Key Features:
Virtual Machines – run applications 
Azure App Services – deploy web apps easily 
Azure DevOps – supports CI/CD pipelines 
Azure Storage – cloud storage service 
AI & Analytics tools – advanced data processing 
Azure integrates well with Microsoft technologies like Windows and .NET.
Conclusion: Azure provides a complete environment for building and deploying applications.

10. Advantages of Cloud Deployment
Cloud deployment means hosting applications on cloud platforms.
Advantages:
Scalability – resources can be increased or decreased 
Cost-effective – pay only for usage 
High availability – services are always accessible 
Easy maintenance – automatic updates 
Global access – access from anywhere 
Cloud reduces hardware dependency and improves performance.
Conclusion: Cloud deployment is efficient, flexible, and widely used in modern applications.

1. How to Test Exceptions in JUnit 5
JUnit 5 provides built-in support to test exceptions using assertion methods.
Definition:
Testing exceptions ensures that a method throws the expected error under invalid conditions.
Method Used:
assertThrows() is used to verify exceptions. 
Syntax:

assertThrows(ExceptionType.class, () -> {
    // code that throws exception
});

Explanation:
If expected exception occurs → test passes 
If no exception or wrong exception → test fails 
Example:

assertThrows(ArithmeticException.class, () -> {
    int a = 10/0;
});

Advantages:
Improves reliability of error handling 
Ensures robustness of code 
Helps identify incorrect logic 
Conclusion: Exception testing in JUnit 5 ensures that applications handle errors properly and behave as expected.

2. How to Improve Code Coverage using JaCoCo
JaCoCo is a tool used to measure how much code is executed during testing.
Definition:
Code coverage indicates the percentage of code tested by test cases.
Types of Coverage:
Line coverage 
Branch coverage 
Method coverage 
Ways to Improve:
Write more unit tests 
Cover all if-else branches 
Test loops and edge cases 
Include negative test cases 
Remove dead or unused code 
Importance:
Identifies untested code 
Reduces bugs 
Improves software quality 
Tools Support:
Works with Maven and Gradle 
Generates HTML reports 
Conclusion: Improving code coverage leads to better testing, fewer bugs, and higher code quality.

3. Docker Commands (Start, Stop, Kill)
Docker provides commands to manage container lifecycle.
Definition:
Docker commands control the execution of containers.
Commands:
Start 

docker start <container_id>

Starts an already created container.
Stop 

docker stop <container_id>

Stops container gracefully.
Kill 

docker kill <container_id>

Stops container immediately (forcefully).
Differences:
Stop → allows cleanup 
Kill → immediate termination 
Importance:
Helps manage running applications 
Enables resource control 
Conclusion: These commands are essential for efficient container management in Docker.

4. Purpose of Volume in Docker
Docker volume is used for data storage and persistence.
Definition:
A volume is a storage mechanism that allows data to exist outside the container.
Features:
Data persists even after container deletion 
Can be shared between multiple containers 
Stored on host system 
Usage:

docker run -v /host:/container

Advantages:
Data backup and recovery 
Improved performance 
Easy data sharing 
Example:
Database data stored in volume remains even if container stops.
Conclusion: Docker volumes ensure safe and persistent data storage across containers.

5. Puppet Architecture (Master–Agent)




Puppet is a configuration management tool used to automate system setup.
Components:
Puppet Master: Central server storing configurations 
Puppet Agent: Installed on client machines 
Nodes: Systems being managed 
Working:
1.Agent requests configuration from Master 
2.Master sends configuration (manifest) 
3.Agent applies configuration to system 
Features:
Automation 
Centralized control 
Consistency 
Advantages:
Reduces manual work 
Ensures uniform configuration 
Conclusion: Puppet Master–Agent architecture enables automated and consistent system management.

6. Benefits of Configuration Management Tools
Configuration management tools help automate infrastructure and system setup.
Definition:
Tools like Puppet, Chef, and Ansible manage system configurations automatically.
Benefits:
Automation of repetitive tasks 
Consistency across environments 
Reduced human errors 
Faster deployment 
Scalability for large systems 
Version control of configurations 
Importance:
Maintains same environment in dev, test, production 
Supports DevOps practices 
Conclusion: These tools improve efficiency, reliability, and speed of software deployment.

7. Cloud Platforms (AWS vs Azure Difference)
AWS and Azure are leading cloud service providers.
AWS:
Largest cloud provider 
Offers wide range of services 
Flexible pricing 
Strong global infrastructure 
Azure:
Developed by Microsoft 
Better integration with Windows and .NET 
Preferred by enterprises 
Easy hybrid cloud support 
Differences:
AWS → more services, more complex 
Azure → easier for Microsoft users 
Similarities:
Both provide scalability 
Both support IaaS, PaaS, SaaS 
Conclusion: Both platforms are powerful; choice depends on business needs and technology stack.

8. Why Multiple Deployment Systems Exist
Different deployment systems are used to handle modern application requirements.
Reasons:
Different application sizes and complexities 
Need for high availability 
Handling large traffic 
Continuous updates and delivery 
Challenges Addressed:
Load balancing 
Fault tolerance 
Scalability 
Faster deployment 
Types:
Traditional deployment 
Virtualized deployment 
Container-based deployment 
Cloud deployment 
Importance:
Improves performance 
Reduces downtime 
Ensures reliability 
Conclusion: Multiple deployment systems exist to efficiently manage complex and scalable applications.
